then me unmute first out hell
okay let's get this ball rolling
welcome everyone to the Jay s core dev
team we think it is January the 21st if
you are here please put your name on the
attendees list in the crypt pad which
Jay covers put on the chat that would be
cigarette the note taker today is Jacob
Thank You Jacob and yeah welcome
everybody it's nice to see your faces
again how are we all today thumbs up
we are funds up fantastic all right cool
I think I'm recording so that's good and
all right we'll do what we normally do
if that's okay with you all and that is
to do a round of what I've done last
week what I'm blocked on and what I'm
planning to do this week absolutely
hello is Mateo oh yeah welcome cool
we're just about to start the weekly
updates okay go alright weekly updates I
will start from the top and I am at the
top so I'll quickly go through what I've
done last week
whoa okay so there was an issue with big
number J s that we were including big
dodge ass as well as big number J s in
the bundle because some of the new
bundle size PRS have been merged but
others haven't so I fixed an issue with
that for the 0:44 release I have yeah so
okay so pre last week we talked to Aaron
about the preload servers and what we
could possibly do to to mitigate against
people like abusing them and one of the
things that might be happening is that
people who are using IP FS might be
using it in their CI environment and
adding just junk data that we don't want
on the preload nodes so I opened up ER
which will actually disable it in in CI
environment so as much as I don't like
code to run that is test specific it
will allow us to start the preload nodes
from getting spammed by people's CI
environments and so yeah eventually this
will all go away when we remove the
preload nodes but it will be here for a
while
the there was in excelsis ipfs loader
needed fixing I fix that out and a whole
bunch of examples for the new 0:34
release got broken which needed fixing
so I sent many pianos for them and then
and then after I'd done all of that I
could actually really 0.34 and that went
out the out the door this week so it's
out there there's a patch release that
happened today to patch releases that
happened today actually so hooray for
that go and then I spent a little bit of
time looking into lazy loading IP OD
formats from IP FS which would be which
would be super cool because I noticed
that so some of the work that Hugo is
doing is making bundle size really small
in browsers and in a PR he's got open he
actually removes the non default IP OD
formats the exotic ones which and which
would make the browser bundle really
small but it would mean that you can't
resolve stuff like varium data or get
data or stuff like that so I was just
using on a solution to that and actually
loading those IP lb formats lazily as
and when they're needed from ipfs seemed
like a fun idea so I think it was David
who suggested it in the first place so
yeah if you were interested in that then
have a look at the YouTube video where I
explain a bit more about it and so as
part of that work I found out the IP o
do theorem and IP o D get didn't have
their brick well they had browser builds
were being built and stuff but the
actual disk folder with the browser
build in it was being ignored
when it was being published so all I
needed to do is add an NPM ignore
without that folder so and that was
super easy to fix and then
okay so the fun things that might affect
you guys day to day is the the elusive
database is not open era that happens on
Windows sometimes and is really annoying
I looked into it and found out why it
happens and send a pull request and
that's been reviewed merged and is
released it's all good so that's gone
and I also added a feature cool where
you can just type stuff from into the
chess IVFs ad so you don't have to
provide a file name anymore which has
been in gopher I guess forever and I'm
completely like super surprised but it
doesn't existing in J so BFS yeah I
don't I don't know how that happened
anyway it's there now so that's fun I'm
not blocked on anything currently my for
next week and planning on doing a well
fix finalizing the timeline for the JSI
BFS roadmap from the older PRS and you'd
still need to look into that I think a
chance s the last week because I was on
the 0:34 release train and I got excited
about the lazy loading my Tod formats
next what else yeah I need to again also
get speed with obvious benchmarks repo
and I would like it to write a benchmark
this week so yeah I'm gonna hopefully do
that and then if I have time I will I
will maybe start this Eid v1 basically
by default work that is me I'm sorry
that was a long update due there on how
many quick questions looking blank I
like it it's my favorite look cool okay
let's move on Jakob would you like to
give us your update so last week we were
at the PTP team week so we didn't ship a
whole lot but we did finalize the draft
of the rendezvous spec got that merged
we also created a base roadmap for
delivering the rendezvous services and
decommissioning the star servers so I'll
be finalizing a more detailed version of
that this week so we can start
collaborating with everybody that will
be involved in that like infra to get
all of that completed hope
the next two quarters so targeting
tentatively targeting you shut down the
star servers July first as an arbitrary
date so we're going to Star Trek to that
we'll see what happens this week going
to create an awesome endeavour for the
release rendezvous and get so we can all
track that more easily there is a Jay s
Heep issue that we ran into when doing
file exchanges and interrupt tests
looking at that also notice that in
those tests exchanging go p-- catting
from Jay s is the slowest combination of
catting I like Jess - Jas is faster go -
goes faster yes
pulling from go is faster and then oddly
enough go pulling from Jas is
significantly faster slower and we were
seeing heap issues there so I'm gonna
try to figure out what is going on there
we'll also be working on finalizing a PR
for the Lib p2p daemon it initial work
there and then gonna work on a plan of
action for getting the multi address
listening and configuration for switch
sorted out this week so we can get that
merged soon anybody have any questions
yeah can you please open up an issue
related to cutting from Jas to go go to
the yes I don't remember which one which
one you perceived Israel so we had that
or sweet because I think Ron is going to
work on that stuff later on this week
especially on the J has to go today ask
whatever benchmarks so that we
prioritize that case the reason is I
think I would love to take a look with
all tools and stuff so that they can I
can see what is the kind of issue
because those type of saying the heap
spike seems a very like bad from an old
point of view so it's something that
should not really happen and I've not
seen it happen
something that used to be yeah I'll
create the issue there and linked to the
CI failures that we were having with
that the create plan for completing need
to work for multi address listening is
that the the thing we were talking about
earlier this week which would be a
replacement for the web live or the
thing that matter he was working on the
Multi multi is that that's the solution
for that but in the p2p
yeah cuz right now there's no we can't
set any tolerance level for listening
so like when we're listening on any of
their like WebSockets tarah rendezvous
servers if we want to listen to like six
addresses we can't really do that we
have to listen to one by one and any
time any one of those fails we throw a
fit and crash ultimately what we want to
be able to do is configure / transport
like what our level of Tolerance is so
maybe TCP we're a little on to be a
little more volatile like if we can't
make a TCP connection we just want to
throw our stop so we can figure out
what's going on but stuff like
WebSockets are we probably want to be
able to do retry with like back off
because we have issues with the star
service so being able to configure all
of that so kind of detail out what I'll
do is in a proposal detail more out
exactly what's a m-- to be changed and
then fire that off for feedback saver
add cool thank you and you have a
questions for Jacob okay let's move on
it's vmx it's the volca would you like
to give us your update yes so I'm still
working on the IPL the API stuff so the
good news is that the test so I
currently only have like 12 tests that
not pass on chase IPs and it's really
that the base of the tests are not
changed so the API is the same on the
IPS I'm still seeing some HTTP issues
with em FS but it's yeah it's super hard
to debug in is super weird but I will
figure it out figure it out hopefully
and I'm not yet blocked but I might
get blocked because I use the multi
codec a constant thing and I still like
to get an approval from Ellen and Alex
if possible or yeah for the discussions
and yeah I want to really want to finish
this API thing and then yeah so I
hopefully fish it this week yes that's
all I have okay cool any questions for
Volker no okay Hugo is not here I will
leave his update for you to read at your
leisure Suzanne is also not here he has
also left an update thank you both and
then we have - Girl hey
so last week as Jacob I was the lipid to
Potomac
we mainly aimed for planning for 2019
and also the first of all discussion and
also in the egg day I made the small
search regarding local transports in the
web web blue - in order to have an idea
of theories in order to understand if we
will be able to do it in the near future
not formed our research it may be
complicated to do that in this quarter
but I will look at it deeper in next
week's so besides that today I revised
the HTTP our with the newest TS FF s
release and I'm currently blocked in
some of the DHT tests because of the the
issue one thousand eight to seven there
is basically when regarding the URL
modifications in the bundle size I think
you go will check all this as soon as
possible so hopefully I can continue it
so this week I really want to get the
HTTP already for emerged also write the
website benchmark test I also will have
a meeting with Jacob with the check
safe guides indifference in the context
of collaborating for the gossips of
implementation in JavaScript which they
already started implementing and also
get the human client of initial
implementation PR emerged and hopefully
we participate as well
everyone has any questions for me nice
thank you so I was just looking for you
he goes and his in his next column he's
got the issue that you link to there and
you're blocked thing so thankfully he
will he'll get to that pretty soon well
so I think we're wearing the same shirt
and sort of rad all right cool next up
is is Alex
so I yes a did the kickoff the package
managers project which is really cool
trying to get you know all the package
managers in the world to start using
like FS to deliver their stuff so
there's gonna be really cool gonna try
and track down a bunch of people at fuzz
down and see how we can help them do
that so as part that I've been trying to
add like a festival to MPN itself so
previously we've got this ipfs NPM tool
the basically spins up an HTTP server
and sits in front of NPM and just
proxies everything tear and then it goes
to the HTTP server which and then turns
into ipfs commands and goes off and gets
drop on my gfs they like adding it to
MPN directly so that you can just say
you know NPM install especially FS or
transport I'll give s or something like
that and it would pull stuff straight
from IGFs so yeah that's currently me
for the next couple of days any
questions
what did the package managers kickoff is
that that's a working group is that what
did it involve yeah it's a working group
so we have a bunch of package managers
that we've talked to in the past about
idea fare so that we've heard the
they're using my givers and we just kind
of went over what what they've done and
if they succeeded or where they so these
involved at that can watch the video if
you like the meeting was recorded yet me
Hector David was on the cool mothers
nice can you put a link somewhere to
casually cool okay cool any other
questions for Alex
alright let's move on
it's Matteo next
hey I'm back I last week I was on the
other side of the planet can couldn't
really join putting India vote for a
client so hey I am I'm back on this back
this week so however Iran is on on
vacation because it's like the national
holiday in the u.s. you probably know
we're a bunch of people over here so
whatever Alex is in transit is in
transit and can't couldn't join I think
that it's not so I am kind of you
representing everybody so a bunch of
updates like nothing no activity for me
last week more or less I was on the
other side then so that was it I have a
bunch of analysis tasks to do to break
down some considerations and I will try
to get those done this week and if there
is if we can get the benchmark for the
problem you mentioned I can I see with
if I can get a look at that as well then
I will go to Alex activity because I'm
really happy Alex now so it set up the
rendezvous server for the browser so
that can run on the so that runs in the
benchmark in front and it doesn't reach
the public one because we were getting
very good numbers then we have many did
a meeting with about the CI integration
and I don't know exactly how because I
didn't see any minutes popping up so I
need to follow up on this one and we got
it all started sometimes to the runner
that is currently an issue which is
blocked on which is like log lines where
do you want log lines to go it's not
major but it's kind of blocked on having
some feedbacks and then there's a bunch
of issue that I'll actually do next week
you can see this week which you can see
listed here that he is basically like
small tasks on the in front that we are
on the benchmarking for that we were
talking to
so we can open this one up actually
because do you know if I can so here we
go so this one it's writing architecture
to adding leader to peer tests that this
first task for Alex which is kind of the
idea then we have got all this make the
runner self feeling so if there is a
crash we can actually like fix ourselves
it seems pretty good which we had a
couple of issue where like bachi drowns
blocked crisis children need to be
restarted manually and gzip stuff before
uploading and some must start a small
things in there
I can't really I don't know why do you
know if it's clickable or maybe here is
clickable okay sorry
and the preview you should be able to
yeah yeah yeah I lost in copy and
passing this stuff so yeah include the
fool are there a bunch of activities
being done there list there you can open
them up and they should be pretty
straightforward to do then we have the
task from run and it did provide
representative representation on adding
tasks to the runner and like a bunch of
issues related to testing and fixing
bugs and stuff like that and then
browser tests and it added a test for
the Treecko strategy so we now have
running I think a running go through the
fuel strategy tests in our tool I don't
know if they show up already on the UI
but issued and those are being added so
they should be able to get results on
those as well and next week is this week
is going to work on the EMFs tests and
the Jes go pew tests so that's why even
that is actually what we are going to
work on we might as well do some some
synchronize on this one so yeah that's
all do we have any questions do you have
any questions okay
with with Ron maybe later in the week if
I get a chance to actually write some
benchmark test maybe I should focus on
this the tap from Jessica test that one
is fine just touch base with theme is
off to play nice cool okay all right any
any other questions okay all right so
next up we have that the new challenger
enters the arena that we've got Lloyd oh
really
how are you doing would you like to give
us your update just like a quick update
related to Jays idea first there is like
a plan to bring IP first brave in 2019
this will be there and we got what's
interesting about this plan is that so
far we've been thinking about shipping
like bundling go ipfs binary with black
itself in a similar fashion that we did
we they are doing but fourth or even but
that was month mostly because like Co
ipfs was the unenviable option year ago
when this discussion started and now we
have like IP n s support the HD lands in
Jays ideas and basically there's like a
way of using Jays ipfs brave with some
additional IP ice I talked with Brian
from brave and we like IPAs companion
can be marked as a blast extension and
if J's code is running in that context
we have access to additional api's
namely like rows TCP sockets ability to
start CP server UDP transport and there
are already libraries that are
compatible with note
but are used by web torrent exactly for
the same purpose in in brave so the web
torrent is already a blast
so there's blast extension so there's
like a prior art and some nice libraries
so I think that's quite interesting
cause it opens a window like for joyous
ipfs to be even more relevant if we like
if someone instance activist companion
in brave and generous ipfs has access to
those api's we could do very interesting
things for example we could expose HTTP
api from jail cipher has no training in
the web browser note or we could do
maybe local discovery or use regular tcp
transport things like that so it's just
something I wanted to put on the board
and then like this week I will try to at
least like build the brave luckily and
there's like this filter for accessing
more powerful API I just want to make a
local build that has those KPIs and I
will by default so I can like prototype
against that yeah nice are you saying
that we could basically do a browser
build of existing the p2p transports
with like the diagram or TCP whenever
that's required in node we swap it out
for those those chrome modules that you
yeah yes so like there are like
libraries using those low-level chrome
IP is created to look exactly like the
note D gram and net modules so you
wouldn't have to do any work to other
than configuring the build to to our
existing Lippe to be transports and we'd
be able to get
low-level tcp mdns sort of things
in the web browser in web extensions yes
so that's likely right that would be
like the perfect scenario right yes to
detect that you are running in brave and
then just during the build replace the
module yeah cool and so linking to that
issue what are you looking for opinions
on the two options or Jesus do you want
feedback or yes so like basically would
be nice just to proofread the plan like
the brave brave plan is fairly high
level the separate issue is basically
adding support to JSA PFS for itself to
recognize it's running in brave as a
blessed extension and automatically like
enable all those additional api's i hope
we don't need to write as much like a
lot of custom codes like we had like
totally different aps without any
polyfills in the Lib the web in this
case maybe we can maybe we'll be lucky
and we'll get it for free we'll see but
still even if drop-in library does not
work like create creating dedicated
transports all right that's like a plan
B right okay and okay any other
questions for polite Oh before renewal
okay we are almost out of time Christian
was on the call but he seems to have
dropped off so I so Christian is working
on the Shawna's tests and getting them
running on or getting go ipfs to use
this repo with all of the shyness tests
on it rather than having their own but
that would enable JSI PFS to use all of
them as well which would be which would
be great there are a couple of copied
Shawna's tests in the JS IVFs repo at
the moment so it be nice if we could use
all of the exist
ones that that are really they're cool
okay so I will leave that there is there
any other questions or or comments from
ipfs zoom hash one or Michael Rogers or
anyone else for that matter
no questions are comments on my end it's
for sure cool okay all right in which
case I think we are pretty much done
thank you everyone for attending and
I'll see you next week for another
exciting round of what you did last week
what you blocked on and what you're
gonna do this week thank you well bye